README.md, before:

# emphaticsoft
Base repository for art-based code

---
## Instructions for setting up the code for the first time on emphaticgpvm01.fnal.gov:

0.  Get a ticket for access EMPHATIC computer:
    * Go to Fermilab Service Desk (fermi.servicenowservices.com)    
    * Click on “Request Something”
    * Click on “Accounts and Access” in the menu on the right
    * Click on “Experiment/Project/Collaboration Computing Account”
    * Fill in the information.  Select “T-1396 EMPHATIC” in the Affiliation/Experiment” dropdown box
    * “Computing/IT Professional Access Only” option should be set to “No”.

1.  Log into emphaticgpvm01.fnal.gov via kerberized ssh.  If you have never used kerberos before, it is easy to install on most platforms (and usually most Linux- and unix-based OSs have this pre-installed).  Replace the standard /etc/krb5.conf file with an appropriate file obtained from  https://authentication.fnal.gov/krb5conf/.
```
kinit username@FNAL.GOV
klist
ssh -Y username@emphaticgpvm0X.fnal.gov
```
Where "X" should be replaced with "1", "2" or "3", to login to one of emmphatic's three virtual machines.  

2.  After logging in, if it doesn't already exist, create the directory /emph/app/users/[username]:

```
mkdir /emph/app/users/[username]
```

3. Then execute:

```
source /emph/app/setup/setup_emphatic.sh
cd /emph/app/users/[username]
mkdir build
```

3.  If you haven't already done so, clone the git repository for EMPHATICSOFT/emphaticsoft in this same directory (/emph/app/users/[username])

```
git clone https://github.com/EmphaticSoft/emphaticsoft
```
You will prompted to enter your github username and a password.  The password should be your personal access token, which you should obtain by following the instructions here: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token.


4. execute:

```
cd /emph/app/users/[username]/build
source /emph/app/users/[username]/emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p
```

5. To compile the code (must be in the "build" directory!):

```
buildtool --generator=ninja
```

Note, once you've done this step, you can simply call "ninja" to compile changes.

---
## Instructions for running a Docker container on your own machine to build the code:

Docker is a commercial software (free for now) that allows EMPHATIC to release the software we use, including all the dependencies and for users to run it on a variety of operating systems.  Docker images of EMPHATIC software are made available via a networked file system provided by CERN, namely CVMFS.  


### Initial setup (only need to do these steps once):
0. (Mac only) Install [macFuse](https://osxfuse.github.io/).
1. Install [CVMFS](https://cernvm.cern.ch/fs/). The link has instructions for various operating systems.
   * Once CVMFS is installed, create `/etc/cvmfs/default.local` and add the following lines (you will likely need to edit this as root or use `sudo`):
      ```
      CVMFS_REPOSITORIES=emphatic.opensciencegrid.org
      CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY=DIRECT
      ```
   * You also need to create the areas where you will be mounting cvmfs:
      ```
      sudo mkdir -p /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org
      sudo mkdir -p /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org
      ```
1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).
   * Once Docker is installed, open it and go to preferences (the gear icon on the top right). Go to `Resources->File Sharing` and add `/cvmfs` to the list, then click `Apply & Restart`. (**Note:** Adding `/cvmfs` to File Sharing is only needed if we put the image on cvmfs rather than just pulling it from DockerHub.)
1. Clone the EMPHATICSoft/emphaticsoft repository onto your computer:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/EmphaticSoft/emphaticsoft
    ```
1. Make a build directory on your computer (eg. `mkdir build`). Mounting this in the container will speed up the build process (after the first build).
### To run the container:
1. Anytime your computer reboots, you will need to remount cvmfs:
   ```
   sudo mount -t cvmfs emphatic.opensciencegrid.org /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org/
   sudo mount -t cvmfs fermilab.opensciencegrid.org /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/
   ```
1. Start Docker. (Double-click on the application or however you usually open applications in your OS.)   
1. Start the container with:
   ```
   docker run --rm -it -v <path-to-your-local-repo>:/emphaticsoft -v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:cached -v <path-to-your-build-directory>:/build lackey32/emphaticsoft-sl7
   ```
1. To set up the environment and ups products, do:
   ```
   source emphaticsoft/setup/setup_emphatic.sh
   cd build
   source ../emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p
   ```
1. To compile the code:
   * for the first time (must be in the build directory):
   ```
   buildtool --generator=ninja
   ```
   * any subsequent builds (still have to be in the build directory):
   ninja
   ```
## Running run on emphaticsoft art modules. 

   * Now that you have build shared objects that could run under art, the real work can start, i.e., running art and your EMPHATIC shared objects to get some histograms that can be seen using root, or simple ASCII .csv files, that can be studied with any analysis tools you like.  These intructions are valid if  you are on emphaticgpvm0X.fnal.gov or your own machine.  First, go to the build directory, and if you have not done so, execute the two setups mentioned above. 
 
   For instance, for the username lebrun, one has:    
   ```
   -bash-4.2$ cd /emph/app/users/lebrun/build
   -bash-4.2$ source ../emphaticsoft/setup/setup_emphatic.sh 
       Setting up emphatic UPS area... /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org/products/
     -bash-4.2$ source ../emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p

     The working build directory is /emph/app/users/lebrun/build
     The source code directory is /emph/app/users/lebrun/emphaticsoft

     ---------------------- check this block for errors ---------------------
     ------------------------------------------------------------------------

     To inspect build variable settings, execute /emph/app/users/lebrun/build/cetpkg_info.sh

    Please use "buildtool" to configure and build emphaticsoft, e.g.:

      buildtool -I <ups-topdir> -vTl [-jN]

    See "buildtool --usage" (short usage help) or "buildtool -h|--help"
    (full help) for more details.
   ```
    * The FHICL_FILE_PATH is an environmental variable which holds multipath, the first one being the one 
      /emph/app/users/lebrun/build/fcl, where our fcl files do reside.
       Then, art will find the top level (the one in the Unix command you invoke), and all the subsequent ones. 
       Such that the command: 
   ```
     -bash-4.2$ art -c onmonprod_job.fcl /emph/app/users/lebrun/data/emphdata_r466_s1.root
   ```
     
     will work..

Commit message:

update README.md for missing flag
Linux users need another flag at SSH.

README.md, after:

# emphaticsoft
Base repository for art-based code

---
## Instructions for setting up the code for the first time on emphaticgpvm01.fnal.gov:

0.  Get a ticket for access EMPHATIC computer:
    * Go to Fermilab Service Desk (fermi.servicenowservices.com)    
    * Click on “Request Something”
    * Click on “Accounts and Access” in the menu on the right
    * Click on “Experiment/Project/Collaboration Computing Account”
    * Fill in the information.  Select “T-1396 EMPHATIC” in the Affiliation/Experiment” dropdown box
    * “Computing/IT Professional Access Only” option should be set to “No”.

1.  Log into emphaticgpvm01.fnal.gov via kerberized ssh.  If you have never used kerberos before, it is easy to install on most platforms (and usually most Linux- and unix-based OSs have this pre-installed).  Replace the standard /etc/krb5.conf file with an appropriate file obtained from  https://authentication.fnal.gov/krb5conf/.
```
kinit username@FNAL.GOV
klist
ssh -Y username@emphaticgpvm0X.fnal.gov
```
Where "X" should be replaced with "1", "2" or "3", to login to one of emmphatic's three virtual machines.
If you are using Linux you need to include another flag: ssh -K -Y username@emphaticgpvm0X.fnal.gov

2.  After logging in, if it doesn't already exist, create the directory /emph/app/users/[username]:

```
mkdir /emph/app/users/[username]
```

3. Then execute:

```
source /emph/app/setup/setup_emphatic.sh
cd /emph/app/users/[username]
mkdir build
```

3.  If you haven't already done so, clone the git repository for EMPHATICSOFT/emphaticsoft in this same directory (/emph/app/users/[username])

```
git clone https://github.com/EmphaticSoft/emphaticsoft
```
You will prompted to enter your github username and a password.  The password should be your personal access token, which you should obtain by following the instructions here: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token.


4. execute:

```
cd /emph/app/users/[username]/build
source /emph/app/users/[username]/emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p
```

5. To compile the code (must be in the "build" directory!):

```
buildtool --generator=ninja
```

Note, once you've done this step, you can simply call "ninja" to compile changes.

---
## Instructions for running a Docker container on your own machine to build the code:

Docker is a commercial software (free for now) that allows EMPHATIC to release the software we use, including all the dependencies and for users to run it on a variety of operating systems.  Docker images of EMPHATIC software are made available via a networked file system provided by CERN, namely CVMFS.  


### Initial setup (only need to do these steps once):
0. (Mac only) Install [macFuse](https://osxfuse.github.io/).
1. Install [CVMFS](https://cernvm.cern.ch/fs/). The link has instructions for various operating systems.
   * Once CVMFS is installed, create `/etc/cvmfs/default.local` and add the following lines (you will likely need to edit this as root or use `sudo`):
      ```
      CVMFS_REPOSITORIES=emphatic.opensciencegrid.org
      CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY=DIRECT
      ```
   * You also need to create the areas where you will be mounting cvmfs:
      ```
      sudo mkdir -p /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org
      sudo mkdir -p /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org
      ```
1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).
   * Once Docker is installed, open it and go to preferences (the gear icon on the top right). Go to `Resources->File Sharing` and add `/cvmfs` to the list, then click `Apply & Restart`. (**Note:** Adding `/cvmfs` to File Sharing is only needed if we put the image on cvmfs rather than just pulling it from DockerHub.)
1. Clone the EMPHATICSoft/emphaticsoft repository onto your computer:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/EmphaticSoft/emphaticsoft
    ```
1. Make a build directory on your computer (eg. `mkdir build`). Mounting this in the container will speed up the build process (after the first build).
### To run the container:
1. Anytime your computer reboots, you will need to remount cvmfs:
   ```
   sudo mount -t cvmfs emphatic.opensciencegrid.org /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org/
   sudo mount -t cvmfs fermilab.opensciencegrid.org /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/
   ```
1. Start Docker. (Double-click on the application or however you usually open applications in your OS.)   
1. Start the container with:
   ```
   docker run --rm -it -v <path-to-your-local-repo>:/emphaticsoft -v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:cached -v <path-to-your-build-directory>:/build lackey32/emphaticsoft-sl7
   ```
1. To set up the environment and ups products, do:
   ```
   source emphaticsoft/setup/setup_emphatic.sh
   cd build
   source ../emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p
   ```
1. To compile the code:
   * for the first time (must be in the build directory):
   ```
   buildtool --generator=ninja
   ```
   * any subsequent builds (still have to be in the build directory):
   ninja
   ```
## Running run on emphaticsoft art modules. 

   * Now that you have build shared objects that could run under art, the real work can start, i.e., running art and your EMPHATIC shared objects to get some histograms that can be seen using root, or simple ASCII .csv files, that can be studied with any analysis tools you like.  These intructions are valid if  you are on emphaticgpvm0X.fnal.gov or your own machine.  First, go to the build directory, and if you have not done so, execute the two setups mentioned above. 
 
   For instance, for the username lebrun, one has:    
   ```
   -bash-4.2$ cd /emph/app/users/lebrun/build
   -bash-4.2$ source ../emphaticsoft/setup/setup_emphatic.sh 
       Setting up emphatic UPS area... /cvmfs/emphatic.opensciencegrid.org/products/
     -bash-4.2$ source ../emphaticsoft/ups/setup_for_development -p

     The working build directory is /emph/app/users/lebrun/build
     The source code directory is /emph/app/users/lebrun/emphaticsoft

     ---------------------- check this block for errors ---------------------
     ------------------------------------------------------------------------

     To inspect build variable settings, execute /emph/app/users/lebrun/build/cetpkg_info.sh

    Please use "buildtool" to configure and build emphaticsoft, e.g.:

      buildtool -I <ups-topdir> -vTl [-jN]

    See "buildtool --usage" (short usage help) or "buildtool -h|--help"
    (full help) for more details.
   ```
    * The FHICL_FILE_PATH is an environmental variable which holds multipath, the first one being the one 
      /emph/app/users/lebrun/build/fcl, where our fcl files do reside.
       Then, art will find the top level (the one in the Unix command you invoke), and all the subsequent ones. 
       Such that the command: 
   ```
     -bash-4.2$ art -c onmonprod_job.fcl /emph/app/users/lebrun/data/emphdata_r466_s1.root
   ```
     
     will work..
