EventDisplay/WebDisplay/README.md, before:

# EMPHATIC Web Display
A browser-based event display for the EMPHATIC experiment.

## Usage
1. Log in to an emphaticgpvm with a **special ssh flag**: `ssh -L 3490:localhost:3490 emphaticgpvm03.fnal.gov`
2. Set up to develop emphaticsoft normally.  You'll forward port 3490 through the SL7 container since you're already on this branch.
3. Find a file you want to read.  It must have **SSD LineSegments** from the MakeSSDClusters module since that's all the event display shows.
4. Start the "web server" ART job: `art -c webDisplay.fcl <yourFile.root>`
5. Open a web browser **on your desktop**.  Type into the URL bar: `localhost:3490`
6. The browser make take a few seconds to load the first event.  Then you should see a black screen with teal lines and some blue and red shapes:
  - Teal lines are SSD LineSegments
  - Red shapes are the magnet and the target
  - Blue shapes are the outlines of SSD sensors
7. How to interact with the browser:
  - Left click and drag to change your viewing angle
  - Right click and drag to change your viewing position in the plane you're viewing from
  - Scroll to zoom in or out
  - Reload the page to go to the next event

## Supported Platforms
- Your laptop (client side):
  - Firefox on Ubuntu (TODO: version.  Mine is pretty recent)
  - Chrome on Ubuntu (TODO: version.  Mine is very old)
  - Chrome on OS X
  - TODO: Safari on OS X?
- Server side:
  - Any POSIX OS on which you can compile emphaticsoft

## Details
Might be useful in case you need to debug something

- The event display just draws LineSegments and MC trajectories right now.  No tracks, hits, or Cherenkov information (yet!).  The magnet and target positions are from the Geometry service.  The magnet geometry is the only geometry component loaded directly from the GDML file right now.  Ask if you want more volumes like this.  I'm trying to limit detailed geometry to keep the focus on the physics.
- The WebDisplay is acting as a trivial "web server" that sends and receives HTTP over a port.  It now figures out when to go to the next event by counting requests.  I get 1 request per magnet segment + 1 request to go to the new event.  You'll get a bunch of numbers on your screen if it gets out of sync somehow.  Please tell me if that happens so I can fix it!
- You have to get port 3490 from the ART job to your web browser on your device.  In these instructions, it is forwarded by ssh which should even encrypt traffic over the port and requires you to authenticate using kerberos to use it effectively.  Not so friendly to non-collaborators, but hopefully overly safe since I'm a web neophyte.
- The 3D display is run client-side (on your computer, not the GPVM) using a Javascript library called three.js.  I got the idea to use this library from CMS's outreach event display.
- The GPVM "web server" is just a code generator that fills in some Javascript based on the LineSegments in the display and the Geometry service.
- We require a POSIX OS (i.e. not Windows) for 2 reasons that I know of: the sockets API, and the stat() API.  stat() is easy to replace with ROOT shenanigans that I don't like from TSystem.  ROOT and Boost may have more robust socket implementations.  The only reason I didn't use a portable socket implementation was to save myself work on the demonstration.

## TODOs
- Before next release:
  - Clean up geometry volume names
  - Why doesn't this work on Safari?  Is it some security setting?  Should we disable the setting or change how the application works?
- Before next collaboration meeting:
  - Include SSD Tracks and TrackSegments.  Robert has these working now!
  - Include the ARICH.  Draw boxes for the ARICH hits?  Paste the 2D histogram on the front of the box as a texture?
  - How do we manage port numbers with many users on the same GPVM?  Right now, they see each other's event displays!
  - Better default camera positions and buttons to switch between them!
  - Better camera controls?  What do collaborators think of these OrbitControls?  Would others like arrow key navigation, or is the camera good enough as is?
- Before next run:
- Later...
  - Extensibility: Goal is for ordinary analyzers to add information to display without writing graphics code.  Better if they don't have to modify event display code at all.
    - Easy difficulty: FHICL interface to add arbitrary volumes from the GDML.  The only big thing I'm missing is calculating positions from TGeoManager.  One way I've done that before is to go recursively up the TGeoNode hierarchy until I find the volume I'm looking for and accumulate matrices along the way.  It would solve the general problem, but it's not easy to get right!
    - Medium difficulty: evd::Metadata data products associated with any data product the event display consumes.  Has color and name overrides.
    - Harder difficulty: ART Tools that can send arbitrary cubes that frontend knows how to render.
  - Display context about selected objects.  We could query the ART job like it's a database!  The backend just has to send back HTML.  Some awesome things I want to do:
    - Show ART provenance information for any data product.  Maybe as a context menu?  How do I even do context menus in THREE.js?
    - Show histograms of the SSDs when their volumes are selected
    - Talk about what magnetic field, alignment constants, and beam conditions are loaded.  Selecting geometry objects is an opportunity to make "ergonomic" controls!
  - Port this to a real web server running e.g. at Notre Dame?
    - That would be nice for outreach!
    - But then someone has to understand and maintain a web server application.
    - The webserver I'm imagining would produce a web page that looks like Nathaniel Tagg's Arachne event display for MINERvA.  We could make an ART job act like a "CGI script" by reading requests on STDIN and replying on STDOUT.  It even sounds like we could leave the ART job running between serving events with Apache.  When I searched for ideas using Google, I saw recommendations that we might as well write an Apache module if we're forced to use C.  I'm not sure how to do that, and it sounds like more dependencies to me.
    - Better yet, deliver a container that runs this thing through a web server.  Then we could deploy it anywhere we need to as a backup plan, and I could test it easiy.
  - Rotations from alignment constants.  The geometry positions all go through the Geometry service right now which could in principle apply alignment constants.  I'm going to have to convert angles from the alignment procedure into either Euler angles or 4x4 rotation matrices (it's a computer graphics thing; NOT Lorentz boost!).
  - How often do we have to update the Javascript side of this application?  How often does the THREE.js API change?  Not work with certain browsers?  As a Javascript newcomer, I don't have easy answers to these questions.  CMS made it work somehow, so I have some hope this won't be too bad...
  - Add a screenshot button.  three.js has a tutorial for this.
  - Represent Assns<> between objects somehow.  Maybe highlight parents and children a different color?  Turns out we're not creating any Assns<> on EMPHATIC anyway.
  - Use Object3D.userData to display a window of information about hovered objects.  The magnet could display the magnetic field, or the SSDs could show a 2D view.

## Helpful links
- GUI example: https://github.com/georgealways/lil-gui
- three.js manual: https://threejs.org/manual/#en/fundamentals
- Wavefront file format that I'm using TGeoShapes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file

Commit message:

Added buttons to orient the camera in useful 2D views.  The pre-set positions could be better, but it's a start.

EventDisplay/WebDisplay/README.md, after:

# EMPHATIC Web Display
A browser-based event display for the EMPHATIC experiment.

## Usage
1. Log in to an emphaticgpvm with a **special ssh flag**: `ssh -L 3490:localhost:3490 emphaticgpvm03.fnal.gov`
2. Set up to develop emphaticsoft normally.  You'll forward port 3490 through the SL7 container since you're already on this branch.
3. Find a file you want to read.  It must have **SSD LineSegments** from the MakeSSDClusters module since that's all the event display shows.
4. Start the "web server" ART job: `art -c webDisplay.fcl <yourFile.root>`
5. Open a web browser **on your desktop**.  Type into the URL bar: `localhost:3490`
6. The browser make take a few seconds to load the first event.  Then you should see a black screen with teal lines and some blue and red shapes:
  - Teal lines are SSD LineSegments
  - Red shapes are the magnet and the target
  - Blue shapes are the outlines of SSD sensors
7. How to interact with the browser:
  - Left click and drag to change your viewing angle
  - Right click and drag to change your viewing position in the plane you're viewing from
  - Scroll to zoom in or out
  - Reload the page to go to the next event

## Supported Platforms
- Your laptop (client side):
  - Firefox on Ubuntu (TODO: version.  Mine is pretty recent)
  - Chrome on Ubuntu (TODO: version.  Mine is very old)
  - Chrome on OS X
  - TODO: Safari on OS X?
- Server side:
  - Any POSIX OS on which you can compile emphaticsoft

## Details
Might be useful in case you need to debug something

- The event display just draws LineSegments and MC trajectories right now.  No tracks, hits, or Cherenkov information (yet!).  The magnet and target positions are from the Geometry service.  The magnet geometry is the only geometry component loaded directly from the GDML file right now.  Ask if you want more volumes like this.  I'm trying to limit detailed geometry to keep the focus on the physics.
- The WebDisplay is acting as a trivial "web server" that sends and receives HTTP over a port.  It now figures out when to go to the next event by counting requests.  I get 1 request per magnet segment + 1 request to go to the new event.  You'll get a bunch of numbers on your screen if it gets out of sync somehow.  Please tell me if that happens so I can fix it!
- You have to get port 3490 from the ART job to your web browser on your device.  In these instructions, it is forwarded by ssh which should even encrypt traffic over the port and requires you to authenticate using kerberos to use it effectively.  Not so friendly to non-collaborators, but hopefully overly safe since I'm a web neophyte.
- The 3D display is run client-side (on your computer, not the GPVM) using a Javascript library called three.js.  I got the idea to use this library from CMS's outreach event display.
- The GPVM "web server" is just a code generator that fills in some Javascript based on the LineSegments in the display and the Geometry service.
- We require a POSIX OS (i.e. not Windows) for 2 reasons that I know of: the sockets API, and the stat() API.  stat() is easy to replace with ROOT shenanigans that I don't like from TSystem.  ROOT and Boost may have more robust socket implementations.  The only reason I didn't use a portable socket implementation was to save myself work on the demonstration.

## TODOs
- Before next release:
  - Get the loading screen back, or at least add updating text to the event display while loading.  Remember that the initial long load is really the backend loading the geometry service.
  - Clean up geometry volume names
  - Why doesn't this work on Safari?  Is it some security setting?  Should we disable the setting or change how the application works?
  - Make it easy and obvious how to add new objects to the event display
    - Put extension interface high in the ART module code.  Move web sockets code as close to the bottom as possible.
    - Put extension interface high in the **Javascript** code.  Remove need for understanding `await` and `Future`.  Or can I remove the need to edit Javascript entirely?
    - Think a little about how MC trajectories will be distinguished from reconstructed tracks.  Should I change the style of MC trajectories to make more options available for the reconstruction?
      - Make MC trajectories dots and dashes only?
      - Button to turn off MC and/or reco?
      - Provide a roadmap for 1-2 other collaborators to add Tracks and the ARICH to the event display.  Pay attention to where they get stuck and smooth that over for the future when I don't work no EMPHATIC anymore!
  - Why does the camera seem sluggish in Firefox?  Do I have an optimization problem now?
- Before next collaboration meeting:
  - Hand these off to someone else to test maintainability!
    - Include SSD Tracks and TrackSegments.  Robert has these working now!
    - Include the ARICH.  Draw boxes for the ARICH hits?  Paste the 2D histogram on the front of the box as a texture?
  - How do we manage port numbers with many users on the same GPVM?  Right now, they see each other's event displays!
  - Better default camera positions and buttons to switch between them!
- Before next run:
- Later...
  - Extensibility: Goal is for ordinary analyzers to add information to display without writing graphics code.  Better if they don't have to modify event display code at all.
    - Easy difficulty: FHICL interface to add arbitrary volumes from the GDML.  The only big thing I'm missing is calculating positions from TGeoManager.  One way I've done that before is to go recursively up the TGeoNode hierarchy until I find the volume I'm looking for and accumulate matrices along the way.  It would solve the general problem, but it's not easy to get right!
    - Medium difficulty: evd::Metadata data products associated with any data product the event display consumes.  Has color and name overrides.
    - Harder difficulty: ART Tools that can send arbitrary cubes that frontend knows how to render.
  - Display context about selected objects.  We could query the ART job like it's a database!  The backend just has to send back HTML.  Some awesome things I want to do:
    - Show ART provenance information for any data product.  Maybe as a context menu?  How do I even do context menus in THREE.js?
    - Show histograms of the SSDs when their volumes are selected
    - Talk about what magnetic field, alignment constants, and beam conditions are loaded.  Selecting geometry objects is an opportunity to make "ergonomic" controls!
  - Port this to a real web server running e.g. at Notre Dame?
    - That would be nice for outreach!
    - But then someone has to understand and maintain a web server application.
    - The webserver I'm imagining would produce a web page that looks like Nathaniel Tagg's Arachne event display for MINERvA.  We could make an ART job act like a "CGI script" by reading requests on STDIN and replying on STDOUT.  It even sounds like we could leave the ART job running between serving events with Apache.  When I searched for ideas using Google, I saw recommendations that we might as well write an Apache module if we're forced to use C.  I'm not sure how to do that, and it sounds like more dependencies to me.
    - Better yet, deliver a container that runs this thing through a web server.  Then we could deploy it anywhere we need to as a backup plan, and I could test it easiy.
  - Rotations from alignment constants.  The geometry positions all go through the Geometry service right now which could in principle apply alignment constants.  I'm going to have to convert angles from the alignment procedure into either Euler angles or 4x4 rotation matrices (it's a computer graphics thing; NOT Lorentz boost!).
  - How often do we have to update the Javascript side of this application?  How often does the THREE.js API change?  Not work with certain browsers?  As a Javascript newcomer, I don't have easy answers to these questions.  CMS made it work somehow, so I have some hope this won't be too bad...
  - Add a screenshot button.  three.js has a tutorial for this.
  - Represent Assns<> between objects somehow.  Maybe highlight parents and children a different color?  Turns out we're not creating any Assns<> on EMPHATIC anyway.
  - Use Object3D.userData to display a window of information about hovered objects.  The magnet could display the magnetic field, or the SSDs could show a 2D view.
  - Better camera controls?  What do collaborators think of these OrbitControls?  Would others like arrow key navigation, or is the camera good enough as is?
    - My first instinct is that I want FPS video game controls.  But I can't get the FPS camera options in THREE.js to focus on the scene.  Someone should debug this l
ater.
    - Things I want to improve about the current camera controls:
      - It's hard to focus on a point that's partway down the detector.  Rotating the camera about that point breaks as soon as a zoom.


## Helpful links
- GUI example: https://github.com/georgealways/lil-gui
- three.js manual: https://threejs.org/manual/#en/fundamentals
- Wavefront file format that I'm using TGeoShapes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file
